# Master's of Science in Computer Science - Thesis 

For the description of the README file, we have provided a brief intoduction about our study below, particularly for the Thesis committee's reference. We also would like to thank the Thesis committee for reading through this GitHub and taking the time to evaluate our study. We sincerely hope that this research will add to the upcoming literature (in some shape or form) about synthetic data generation using LLMs and/or deepfakes. 

What is in this repository? This repository contains all of the files (google collab notebooks, google doc reports, powerpoint presentations) for supplementing our Thesis project. These files are provided for the Thesis committee's review. 

What are we investigating in this study? In this study, we are investigating the impact of subsituting real user data with LLM-generated synthetic data for training classification models (RoBERTa, Support Vector Machine, Logistic Regression) on sentiment analysis tasks. The goal is to improve the model's performance (measured by F1, precision, recall) on unseen real user data in the underrepresented classes in the imbalanced TripAdvisor dataset. 

Why are we honing in on the minority classes of the TripAdvisor dataset? We honed in on the minority classes of the dataset because that is where RoBERTa typically fails. In this study, we are not focused on expanding the number of samples in the minority classes. We are focused on keeping the number of minority samples consistent, while injecting LLM-generated synthetic data into the minority classes to find if that would create measurable improvement in the F1-score, precision, and recall of the minority classes.    

What is the hypothesis in this study? The hypothesis is that if we replace a portion of real data with LLM-generated synthetic data in the underrepresented classes only, we will gain an increase in the F1-score, precision, and recall of the underrepresented classes (neutral label and negative label) for broad-based sentiment analysis and aspect-based sentiment analysis. By subsituting real data with LLM-generated synthetic data, we are operating under the assumption that more real data does NOT lead to better models, an assumption that has been studied by prior literature.

Why Sentiment Analysis? For this study, we chose to evaluate the model and LLM-generated synthetic data on two sentiment analysis tasks (a type of classification task): broad-based sentiment analysis and aspect-based sentiment analysis. The goal of sentiment analysis tasks is to extract insights about users' attitudes and preferences which can be used by businesses to improve the customers' experience, improve the brand's reputation, increase the consumer retention rate, and overall drive sustainable growth in businesses (which is measured by various key product indicators (KPIs), such as Net Promoter Score, Lifetime Value, Average Revenue per user, etc). 

What are the contents of the dataset? Our dataset is text-based; It consists of TripAdvisor reviews from Juneau, Alaska from over 50 locations in Juneau. We have included a list of the locations in the Dataset folder. We chose the locations that are considered "popular" by tourists on TripAdvisor.com. For instance, we scraped reviews from the top ranked locations on the "Things To Do" section, the hotels section, the restaurants section, and the activities section on TripAdvisor.com, generating a robust dataset that provides a comprehensive snapshot of tourists' reactions to different tourist sites in Juneau. 

How did we generate the synthetic data? We generated the synthetic data using the instruction-tuned Llama3.1 8B (8 billion parameters) large language model. We implemented this LLM using Python, Ollama, and LangChain in Google Collab. The role of the LLM-generated synthetic data is to augment the minority classes (e.g., the ratings that are underrepresented on TripAdvisor.com) in order to increase the diversity of the dataset. We find that this research can serve as a stepping stone for other studies in other domains (such as education, defense, sustainability) that are broadly exploring how to use synthetic data to create fair and robust AI/ML systems. 
